# sql_challenge
Module 9 - SQL challenge
Downloaded Module 9 Challenge files

# Data Modelling
Inspected the csv files and used QuickDBD to design an ERD.  Initially just the table headings and column names. Then added data types and finally the relationships.  
Saved to RePo as EmployeeSQL_ERD.png

# Data Engineering
dept_no and titleID contain letters and numbers so are VARCHAR data types not INT.  
1. Using the ERD to construct the tables, initially with just the primary keys and no relationships.  
Used an autogenerated primary key for dept_emp, dept_manager and salaries tables as no unique values within.
2. Imported data into tables from the csv files.  
Initial import for salaries table failed due to additional data in csv file (see Salaries_import_fail.png), cleaned file and imported successfully

Note: for tables with auto generated PKs deslected that column as part of import, also specify header rows.
3. Created relationships by defining the foreign keys for each table, using ALTER TABLE.
4. Saved .sql as Table_schemata.sql
# Data Analysis
1. Created and ran queries below, saved as Queries.sql  

-- Query 1 - List the employee number, last name, first name, sex and salary of each employee.

-- Query 2 - List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.

-- Query 3 - List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.

-- Query 4 - List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name.

-- Query 5 - List the first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.

-- Query 6 - List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.

-- Query 7 - List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.

-- Query 8 - List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).